Let's give A Baseline Algorithm for
Sentiment Analysis.
And the task we're going to use is
sentiment classification of movie reviews.
And I've drawn on the work of Pang and Lee
and their collaborators in this lecture.
So their task was what's often called
Polarity detection, simple positive or
negative, no complicated sentiment issues.
And they're going to apply this to
movie reviews from the IMDB website.
And they've released some data
that's often used in research
called Polarity Data 2.0
which is a set of IMDB movie
reviews that have been text normalized and
I pointed you here at the URL for that.
Here's some examples of movies from
their database and take a look and
see if you can decide which ones positive
and which ones negative Hopefully,
you decide that the first one is
positive and the second one is negative.
And the way you'd decide that
is words like aggravating and
unbelievably disappointing for
negative and cool for positive.
So these are the words, they're going to
help us in the classification task.
In the baseline algorithm
itself has a number of steps.
We're going to start by tokenizing
the words in the review itself.
Then we're going to extract features and
the features we're going to look
at mostly are words themselves.
And then we'll take these features and
apply them in a classifier.
And we've talked about Naive Bayes so
we're going to use Naive Bayes
in today's lecture.
But in practice, we might just as often or
even more often uses a MaxEnt
classifier which we'll talk about
in a future or SVM classifier.
Any classifier works fine.
Sentiment tokenization, a lot of the same
issues come up as any kind of tokenization
we've talked about earlier..
In sentiment,
your likely be dealing with websites, so
you going to have HTML and XML mark up.
You might be dealing with Twitter, so
then you have to deal with hash tags and
Twitter usernames.
Capitalization, which in many other kinds
of text normalization isn't so important,
often it's just,
we get rid of capitalization.
We might in sentiment want to
preserve at least some of it,
perhaps words in all caps.
People are often shouting
by using capitalization.
We're going to want to normalize
phone numbers and dates and
it's very important in sentiment
tokenization to recognize emoticons.
So I'll show you here a set
of regular expressions for
detecting emoticons from Chris Potts.
So here,
we have one long regular expression for
recognizing an optional hat,
followed by an eye.
Followed by an optional nose and
then a mouth, and so on, so
you can see to that, either in
a positive or reverse orientation.
And this set of regular
expressions comes from
a whole sentiment tokenizer
that I pointed you at here.
And there's other kinds of tokenizers like
Brendan O Connor's twitter tokenizer.
You can also go look at.
So, a number of issues come
up in extracting features for
sentiment classification.
One is negation.
It's very important to detect
negation in a word like, didn't,
so we know that I didn't like this movie.
We should be able to detect
that it's quite different than,
I really like this movie.
So we're going to need to
deal with negation and
we also have to deal with
the question of which words to use.
We might want to use just adjectives.
We might want to use all
the words in the text.
In turns out that, at least on this
IMDB data and maybe in general.
That looking at all words is better than
looking at just adjectives because often
verbs or nouns or other words give us
a lot of information about sentiment.
So how do we deal with negation?
Here is the simplest algorithm
first proposed by Das and
Chen and used very frequently after that.
We simply take the four letters
N-O-T under bar and we prepend
them to every word between the negation
word and then the following punctuation.
So we have a phrase like,
didn't like this movie comma but I and
we turn that into didn't Not_like,
NOT_this, NOT_movie.
So, now we've essentially
doubled our vocabulary size,
every word could be itself or
the core of the word with NOT_ prepended.
And we're going to learn that these
NOT_ words, we've created words for
negative sentiment or for
flipping the sentiment.
To remind ourselves about Naive Bayes,
the most likely class,
according to Naive Bayes is that
class out of all classes which
maximized the product
of two probabilities.
The prior,
the probability of the class and
the product over all
positions in the document of
the likelihood of the word in
that document given the class.
So how likely are we to see
a positive movie review times for
every position the document,
how likely is that word to have been
expressed by a positive movie review.
In the same for negative and
we pick whichever one positive or
negative has highest probability or
if we are doing three,
we are doing neutral as well,
we could have three classes.
And in practice, for
sentiment analysis and
lots of other text classification tasks,
we use simple Laplace or
add one smoothing with Naive Bayes.
So the way we're computing this likelihood
probability of a word given the class,
is just by adding 1 to the count and
then the vocabulary sized the denominator.
For sentiment and
other text classification tasks,
we often use a slight variant of the
Naive Bayes algorithm called Binarized or
Boolean multinomial Naive Bayes.
And the intuition of this algorithm
is that for sentiment and for
other text classification tasks we
care more whether a word occurred or
not Then exactly what its frequency is.
So, for example,
the occurrence of the word fantastic
tells us maybe a lot that
we have a positive review.
But fantastic occurring three times or
five times may not tell us a lot
more then just occurring once.
So in Boolean Multinomial Naive Bayes
we simply clip all the word
counts in each document had a count of 1.
So, instead of using the four term
frequency, we'll just use a count of 1 for
each document.
So, if we look at our original
learning algorithm for
Multinomial Naive Bayes, here,
remember we extract our Vocabulary, and
now we're going to calculate our priors,
remember the priors.
And by looking every, how many documents
occur with a particular class over
the total number of documents,
so there's our prior.
And for the likelihood terms for
each word for each class,
we roughly counted how many
times this word counted
this word over the count
of all words in a class.
Then it gives us the likelihood of a word
in a class then we did some add one
smoothing and
we're going to do the exact same thing
with Boolean with one extra step.
Before we do our concatenating of all
the documents into one big document and
counting all the words in it,
we are going to remove duplicates.
So for each document for every word type,
we're just going to retain
a single instance of that word.
So if a word is heard five times,
we'll keep only one copy of that word.
And then we can concatenate all of these
documents and then we'll do our counting
and our add one smoothing and everything
as we did before for Naive Bayes.
So that's our training algorithm for
Naive Bayes in the Boolean form.
The testing, when you're doing
Boolean Multinomial Naive Bayes we do
the exact same thing, we remove from the
test document, all the duplicate words.
So if a word occurs five times,
we keep only one copy of it.
And then we use the same Naive Bayes
equation we've been using before on this
slightly reduced test document.
Let's look at an example of
Boolean Multinomial Naive Bayes.
And here we've put up the little document
that we saw when we were talking about
Naive Bayes originally.
So we have here four Training
documents and one Test document.
And so,
the word Chinese occurs in Class C,
three documents are in Class C,
so it occurs four times.
One, two, three, four, five, sorry,
five times, so
the count of Chinese is five.
And it occurs three times in our Test
document, Chinese equals 3 and so on.
So in our Naive Bayes equation,
we're going to be using this
count to compute the likelihood
the probability of Chinese
given the document Class C.
But in the Boolean format we're simply
going to pre-process the documents
to remove all multiple copies of a word.
Here's our Boolean version now.
So you'll notice that there is only 1
copy of the word Chinese in document 1,
1 copy in document 2,
1 copy in document 3.
So now,
our counts in the C class in training for
Chinese, the count of Chinese.
Now the count Chinese is
going to be 3 instead of 5 and
in the test set here count
of Chinese is only 1.
So it turns out that this version of
Naive Bayes Binarized Boolean feature,
Multinomial Naive Bayes, works better
than using the full word counts.
And I want to note that for those of you
who know about that there's an alternative
version of Naive Bayes called
Multivariate Bernoulli Naive Bayes.
Using binarized Boolean features in
Multinomial Naive Bayes is not the same as
Multivariate Bernoulli Naive Bayes.
In fact, Multivariate Bernoulli Naive
Bayes doesn't seem to work as well for
sentiment or other tasks.
So we generally use binarized words
rather than the full word counts.
Although, some researchers
like Rennie et al.,
suggested that maybe something
in between the frequency.
And just one word like looking
at the log of the frequency
which is smaller than the frequency but
maybe different than just using one,
maybe a useful thing to try.
And if you're interested
you can read the literature
on this whole question of which
version are your basis most useful.
As we introduced the last time, Pang and
Lee in our baseline classifier we're
going to use cross-validation.
So cross-validation remember we
break up our data into 10 folds,
I've shown only 5 folds here.
And inside each fold,
let's say we might have the same number.
Let's say, we have half positive and
half negative in our data.
So we have, let's say, four positive and
four negative in our test set.
Then we're going to have also,
let's say we have 500 positive and
500 negative in our training.
So we're going to make sure that our test
set has the same distribution of positive
and negative as our training set.
And then we're going to rotate our test
set through our data and each time,
we're going to train a classifier.
So classifier 1, classifier 2
will train on this Training data,
test on this Test data and
compute an accuracy.
So we'll have accuracy 1, accuracy 2,
accuracy 3, for each of these classifiers.
And well compute this
performances of this classifiers,
so we have 5 different
example here 9 each time
we training on a fold
including our accuracy.
Will take the average of all those and
report the average of this 10
runs each one training 9 folds and
testing in one test fold.
And in general it's nice if
we also add a final test set.
It turns out that other kind
of classifiers MaxEnt and
SVM often do better than Naive Bayes.
It depends a lot on you data set and
the size of the data.
But you want to take a look at all
sorts of different classifiers when
you're doing a base.
Now this base line algorithm
has a lot of problems.
One problem is that sentiment is
just a hard task in general, so
here's some examples from Pang and Lee.
Take a look at them, if you're reading
this because it is your darling fragrance,
please wear it at home exclusively and
tape the windows shut.
So, that's a negative review of a perfume,
but
very hard to find just by using
positive and negative words.
Or the famous witty comment by
Dorothy Parker on Katherine Hepburn,
she runs the gamut of
emotions from A to B.
Again, quite difficult to detect.
Another problem that often
occurs in sentiment is called,
the Thwarted Expectation Problem,
has to do with ordering effects.
So, here read this first review,
this film should be brilliant,
sounds like a great plot, actors are first
rate lots of positive things going on, but
at the end the reviewer
says it can't hold up.
So seems like a positive review,
but it's not.
Similarly, in this sentence, the very
talented Laurence Fishbourne, not so good.
So here we're setting up, I expected
the movie to be good and it wasn't good.
So this kind of ordering effect is
something that we're going to have
to deal with in any kind of more
advanced sentiment algorithm.
So that's the basic Baseline Algorithm
that we can see for Sentiment Analysis.